

    SMOKING

    Some businesses now say that no one can smoke cigarettes in any of their offices. Some governments have banned smoking in all public places. This is a good idea but it also takes away some of our freedom. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons.

    Should the same laws which prohibit the sale and consumption of heroin be applied to tobacco?

    ECOLOGY

    To what extent is the use of animals in scientific research acceptable?

    Human beings do not need to eat meat in order to maintain good health because they can get all their food needs from meatless products and meatless substances. A vegetarian diet is as healthy as a diet containing meat. Argue for or against the opinion above.

    Forests are the lungs of the earth. Destruction of the world's forests amounts to death of the world we currently know. To what extent do you agree or disagree?

    Are our zoos cruel to wild animals? Discuss.

    Zoos are sometimes seen as necessary but not poor alternatives to a natural environment. Discuss some of the arguments for and/or against keeping animals in zoos.

    To what extent should economic planning be influenced by the need of environmental conservation?

    Damage of the environment is an inevitable consequence of worldwide improvements in the standard of living. Discuss.

    The rising levels of congestion and air pollution found in most of the world cities can be attributed directly to the rapidly increasing number of private cars in use. In order to reverse this decline in the quality of life in cities, attempts must be made to encourage people to use their cars less and public transport more. Discuss possible ways to encourage the use of public transport.

    EDUCATION

    Education is the single most important factor in the development of a country. Do you agree?

    What are factors which are related to academic success in high-school students?

    Do the benefits of study abroad justify the difficulties? What advice would you offer to a prospective student?

    The idea of going overseas for university study is an exciting prospect for many people. But while it may offer some advantages, it is probably better to stay home because of the difficulties a student inevitably encounters living and studying in a different culture. To what extent do you agree or disagree this statement? Give reasons for your answer.

    Write a report to your sponsoring agency describing the English-language skills overseas students require. Make any recommendations you feel are necessary.

    What kind of listening challenges do overseas students face in tertiary education? What recommendations would you offer?

    Write a report to your sponsoring agency describing the accommodation problems faced by foreign students in Britain. Make any necessary recommendations.

    Education is recognized as vital to the future of any society in today's world. Governments throughout the world should make education compulsory for all children between the ages of 5 and 15. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?

    Foreign language instruction should begin in kindergarten. Discuss.

    Example Children should never be educated at home by their parents. Do you agree or disagree?

    Children learn best by observing behavior of adults and copying it. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement?

    ECONOMIC PROBLEMS

    To what extent should universities function as training grounds for employment?

    To what extent should university courses be geared to the economic needs of society?

    How do wage increases contribute to inflation?

    Should wealthy nations be required to share their wealth among poorer nations by providing such things as food and education? Or is it a responsibility of the governments of poorer nations to look after their citizens themselves?

    To what extent will migration from the developing world to the developed world become a social and political issue in the 21st century?

    Many lives are in danger when hastily erected buildings collapse because safety standards have been sacrificed to hopes of a quick profit. To prevent disasters of this kind, governments should play a greater role in setting and enforcing safety standards for building construction.

    SOCIOLOGICAL PROBLEMS

    The dominance of black people in US sport is due to sociological rather than physiological factors. Discuss.

    In Britain, when someone gets old, they often go to live in a home with other old people where there are nurses to look after them. Sometimes the government has to pay for this care. Who should be responsible for our old people? Give reasons.

    In some countries the average worker is obliged to retire at the age of 50, while in others people can work until they are 65 or 70. Meanwhile, we see some politicians enjoying power well into their eighties. Clearly, there is little agreement on an appropriate retirement age. Until what age do you think people should be encouraged to remain in paid employment? Give reasons for your answer.

    In your opinion should government intervene in the rights of the individual with regard to family planning?

    To what extent has the traditional male role changed in the last 20 years?

    Many people believe that women make better parents than men and that this is why they have the greater role in raising children in most societies. Others claim that men are just as good as women at parenting Write an essay expressing your point of view. Give reasons for your answer.

    CARS

    The first car appeared on British roads in 1888. By the year 2000 there may be as many as 29 million vehicles on British roads. Alternative forms of transport should be encouraged and international laws introduced to control car ownership and use. What do you think?

    The best way to reduce the number of traffic accidents is to make all young drivers complete a safe driving education course before being licensed to drive.

    The rising levels of congestion and air pollution found in most of the world cities can be attributed directly to the rapidly increasing number of private cars in use. In order to reverse this decline in the quality of life in the cities attempts must be made to encourage people to use their cars less and public transport more. Discuss possible ways to encourage the use of public transport.

    OTHER TOPICS

    NUCLEAR POWER

    The threat of nuclear weapons maintains world peace. Nuclear power provides cheap and clean energy. The benefits of nuclear technology far overweigh the disadvantages. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons for your answer. TV

    News editors decide what to broadcast on TV and what to print in newspapers. What factors do you think influence their decisions? Do we become used to bad news? Would it be better if more good news was reported?

    TV: could you be without it? Discuss.

    The mass media, including TV, radio and newspapers, have great influence in shaping people's ideas. To what extent do you agree or disagree this statement? Give reasons for your answer.

    TOURISM

    Useful tips for a foreigner coming to Russia. How to become successful in everyday communication in Russia. Give recommendations for a tourist.

    Tourism is becoming increasingly important as a source of revenue to many countries but its disadvantages should not be overlooked.

    MUSIC

    What do you think might be advantages and disadvantages of life as a rock star? 

Home
