
    

    You have had an accident and are in hospital. Write a letter to your college administration explaining why you will be absent from class for the next month. Ask for advice about how to continue your studies during this period.

    You find that your study load is too heavy. Write a letter to your college teacher explaining why you need to withdraw from two courses. Ask if it is possible to obtain a refund.

    You want to apply for the following job. Write a letter to Mr Moore describing your previous experience and explaining why you would be suitable for the job.Announcement: Water/waitress required for evening work. Some experience necessary. Write to: Mr K.Moore

    You have had a bank account for a few years. Recently you received a letter from the bank stating that your account is $240 overdrawn and that you will be charged $70 which will be taken directly from your account. You know that the information is incorrect.Write a letter to the bank. Explain what has happened and say what you would like them to do about it.

    Write a report for your college teacher describing an English-language course which you have taken. Explain why it is not necessary for you to take further English-language courses.

    You are writing a letter to your pen pal. Describe your previous studies and work experience, your current activities, hobbies and interests. Tell your pen pal that you will be visiting her/his country during the summer vacation and suggest meeting him/her.

    Being on a visit in foreign country, you have post your passport. Write a letter to a Russian embassy officer asking what to do. Give details about circumstances of your loss and describe your further actions.

    You have had an accident and are in hospital with A broken leg. Your friends visited you bringing books, flowers and fruit. Write a letter to one of your friends thanking him/her for his/her attention. Give details about all that happened to and comment on the medical treatment which you received.

    You are a tourist and have settled into the hotel. Although your room was booked in advance through a travel agency, you discover that there is no balcony, the entrance is under the staircase and the window opens on to the road. Write a letter to the travel agency manager asking her/him for a refund of the cost of the accomodation. 
