http://www.ielts-exam.net/ielts_writing_samples_task_2/40/

http://ielts-simon.com/ielts-help-and-english-pr/2011/04/ielts-writing-task-2-job-satisfaction-topic.html


http://petercaochitien.wordpress.com/2009/12/15/people-can-no-longer-expect-a-job-for-life-essay/


People can no longer expect a job for life/ essay.
Posted on December 15, 2009	by petercaochitien

 

 

Job satisfaction is one of the most controversial issues these days. 
It seems most likely that employees can no longer expect a job for life. 
This means that today workers tend to have a range of jobs, which they may choose to work alternatively. 
In fact, this seems to be problematic to both the individuals and the government. Therefore, in order to have a prosperous future, 
we all should consider this matter carefully so that we will be able to tackle disadvantageous situations in the future.

 
The first matter that we, both individuals and the government, should be concerned about is the question, 
“Why are people no longer be contented with their only job as they used to be, which is rather different from a few years ago?” 
Personally, it is probably obvious that our lives have changed remarkably, especially in terms of our working conditions and the methods, 
which we use to work, have improved significantly as well. For instance, modern technology enables us to do a variety of work easily, 
such as the usage of the computers, the usage of new types of machines that we use to work, etc. Another example, which is believed to be the main cause of unemployment of workers, is robots and machines. In reality these tools seem to take over workers jobs. As a result, many people become out of work unexpectedly. This may lead workers to change their attitude to finding a new job. From those examples and evidence, we can recognise some challenges which force us to have a lot of jobs, instead of one as they used to have, because they need to work to earn and support their families.

 

 

In order to prepare for today and future working environment, there seems that education is the most effective solution. By saying that I mean the government should educate workers step by step to adapt to new types of working conditions, such as operating mechanical system so that they can do their job effectively, teach workers and their children to have an equal knowledge and understanding of modern technology. As a consequence, they may be interested in working their own jobs.

 

 

In addition, money is a big concern for most workers, so it is important that the government and organisations pay their workers adequately so that they may be satisfied with carrying on working their jobs. Moreover, creating new jobs is essential as well, because nowadays people tend to be more creative and ambitious, so this means that we should use their talents beneficially.

 

 

Overall, it is vital that both the government and each of us understand and help each other to overcome bad situations and have a bright future. In my opinion, there will be a lot of new types of jobs in the future; we should be educated to be able to work when the time comes. Also, it is a great idea that the government ask public opinions because they are the people who control the future.  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 
