
    

    You have had an accident and are in hospital. Write a letter to your college administration explaining why you will be absent from class for the next month. 
	Ask for advice about how to continue your studies during this period.

    You find that your study load is too heavy. Write a letter to your college teacher explaining why you need to withdraw from two courses. Ask if it is possible to obtain a refund.

    You want to apply for the following job. Write a letter to Mr Moore describing your previous experience and explaining why you would be suitable for the job.Announcement: Water/waitress required for evening work. Some experience necessary. Write to: Mr K.Moore

    You have had a bank account for a few years. Recently you received a letter from the bank stating that your account is $240 overdrawn and that you will be charged $70 which will be taken directly from your account. You know that the information is incorrect.Write a letter to the bank. Explain what has happened and say what you would like them to do about it.

    Write a report for your college teacher describing an English-language course which you have taken. Explain why it is not necessary for you to take further English-language courses.

    You are writing a letter to your pen pal. Describe your previous studies and work experience, your current activities, hobbies and interests. Tell your pen pal that you will be visiting her/his country during the summer vacation and suggest meeting him/her.

    Being on a visit in foreign country, you have post your passport. Write a letter to a Russian embassy officer asking what to do. Give details about circumstances of your loss and describe your further actions.

    You have had an accident and are in hospital with A broken leg. Your friends visited you bringing books, flowers and fruit. Write a letter to one of your friends thanking him/her for his/her attention. Give details about all that happened to and comment on the medical treatment which you received.

    You are a tourist and have settled into the hotel. Although your room was booked in advance through a travel agency, you discover that there is no balcony, the entrance is under the staircase and the window opens on to the road. Write a letter to the travel agency manager asking her/him for a refund of the cost of the accomodation. 



1.Large tree grows just near your house, producing troubles for you. Write a letter to local authority explaining this problem, discuss the ways of its resolution and make enquiries about financial aspect. 

2.You live in a room in college which you share with another student. You find very difficult to work there because he or she always has friends visiting. They have parties in the room and sometimes borrow your things without asking you.

Write a letter to the Accomodation officer at the college and ask for a new room next term. You would prefer a single room. Explain your reasons.

3. You rent a house through an agency. The heating system has stopped working. You phoned the agency a week ago but it has still not been mended.

Write a letter to the agency. Explain the situation and tell them what you want them to do about it

4. You have had an accident and are in hospital. Write a letter to your college administration explaining why you will be absent from class for the next month. Ask for advice about how to continue your studies during this period.

5. You find that your study load is too heavy. Write a letter to your college teacher explaining why you need to withdraw from two courses. Ask if it is possible to obtain a refund.

6. You want to apply for the following job. Write a letter to Mr Moore describing your previous experience and explaining why you would be suitable for the job.

Announcement: Water/waitress required for evening work. Some experience necessary. Write to: Mr K.Moore

7. You have had a bank account for a few years. Recently you received a letter from the bank stating that your account is $240 overdrawn and that you will be charged $70 which will be taken directly from your account. You know that the information is incorrect.

Write a letter to the bank. Explain what has happened and say what you would like them to do about it.

8. Write a report for your college teacher describing an English-language course which you have taken. Explain why it is not necessary for you to take further English-language courses.

9. You are writing a letter to your pen pal. Describe your previous studies and work experience, your current activities, hobbies and interests. Tell your pen pal that you will be visiting her/his country during the summer vacation and suggest meeting him/her.

10. Being on a visit in foreign country, you have post your passport. Write a letter to a Russian embassy officer asking what to do. Give details about circumstances of your loss and describe your further actions.

11. You have had an accident and are in hospital with A broken leg. Your friends visited you bringing books, flowers and fruit. Write a letter to one of your friends thanking him/her for his/her attention. Give details about all that happened to and comment on the medical treatment which you received.


12. You are a tourist and have settled into the hotel. Although your room was booked in advance through a travel agency, you discover that there is no balcony, the entrance is under the staircase and the window opens on to the road. Write a letter to the travel agency manager asking her/him for a refund of the cost of the accomodation.

13. You just returned from a trip abroad arranged by a travel agent, where you had faced a lot of problems:- 
In your letter write:- 
What problems you faced at the hotel? 
what action you want the travel agent to take? 
What should the travel agent do in future ?

14. You have purchased a camera from the duty free shop. There has been something wrong with the camera. Write a letter to the shop and describe what you felt when you found out about the problem. Tell them what you expect them to do.

15. You have broken your leg and are staying at home for a few weeks. Your classmates have sent you so many presents and cards. Write a letter to them and describe how you spend your time and tell them about your recovery.

16.you are playing for a sports team in english-speaking country and you have to leave to your home country. Write a letter to your team-members about following 
a) Why you are writing this letter (some thing like this) 
b) Why you have to go back to your country. (some thing like this) 
c) What you have enjoyed in team (something like this)

17.write a letter to the head of library which you are a member of "about the things that you really like about library","what you feel that you miss in library",and "what they should do to improve it "

18.You want to study in Britain. Write a letter to the president to change one of your courses and inquire some relevant information. 

19.You are vacating your rented accomodation,write to a friend and tell him to take that place on rent,because it is a good one.

20.You offered a job for 3 months in canada .the company is offering u accommodation ..write a letter a project manager about thing to look while looking for accommodation such as location n all...

21.Letter to taxi company to complain about a journey on that taxi. 


22. You hired a car from the car hiring company. You involved in a minor accident. Write a letter to a hiring company about how the accident. As they need to provide the information to the insurance company. 
a: you need to mention and explain about accident 
b: you need to include the information on when you hired the car 
c: what measures you taken after the incident.


23. You have just returned home after living with a family in an English-speaking country for six months. You now realise that you left a small bag of personal possessions in your room. Write to the family describing the things you left behind. Ask them to send some or all of them to you. Offer to cover the cost.

24. You borrowed some books from your school or college library. Unfortunately you have to go away to visit a sick relative and cannot return the books in time. Write a letter to the library. Explain what was happend an tell them what you want to do about it.

25. You travelled by plane last week and your suicase was lost. You have still heard nothing from the airline company. Write to the airline and explain what happend. Describe your suitcase and tell them what was in it. Find out what they are going to do about it.

