THE MEDIA 

1. New editors decide what to broadcast on television and what to print in newspapers. What factors do you think influence these decisions? Do we become used to bad news? Would it be better if more good news was reported? Discuss. (Cambridge  IE  1)

2. The mass media, including television, radio and newspapers, have great influence in shaping people's ideas. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? (Model tests for the  IE ) 

3. Television is dangerous because it has destroyed the family living and communication. Some people said that it absorb people's time too much that they have no time to talk to each other. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

4. Some people said the age of books is past. The information will be presented by video, computers, televisions, films. Others think the books and the written words will be necessary for spread information and complete education. Discuss. (China writing)

5. Television has had a significant influence on the culture of many societies. To what extent would you say that television has positively or negatively affected the culture development of your society?

6. We can get knowledge from news, but some people think we can't trust the journalist. Discuss, what do you think is the important qualities that a journalist should have? (China writing)


EDUCATION 

1. In many countries schools have severe problems with student behaviour. What do you think are the causes of this? What solutions can you suggest? (Cambridge  IE  4)

2. Subjects such as Art, Sport and Music are being dropped from the school curriculum for subjects such as Information Technology. Many people children suffer as a result of these changes. To what extent would you support or reject the idea of moving these subjects from school curriculum? ( IE  Practice tests with answers)

3. Because of the pressure of new subjects such as business studies, many schools have dropped sport or physical education (PE) from the curriculum. How important is sport or PE in a young person's education? ( IE  on Track)

4. Studying the English language in an English-speaking country is the best but not the only way to learn the language. Do you agree with this statement? (Model tests for the  IE )

5. The idea of going overseas for university study is an exciting prospect for many people. But while it may offer some advantages, it is probably better to stay at home because of 
the difficulties a student inevitably encounters living and studying in a different culture. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  to success)

6. In order to learn a new language well, you should also get to know the culture and the lifestyle. To what extent do you agree with this idea? (August 22nd, 2006)

7. Only formal examinations, written or practical, can give a clear picture of students' true knowledge and ability at university level. Continuous assessment like course word and project are poor measures of student ability. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Academic writing practice)

8. Academic achievement at school or university is the only true measure of a person's intelligence. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation)

9. Some people think that university should not provide theoretical knowledge, but to give practical training benefit to society. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

10. Some people say that universities should be concerned with educating people so that they will have wide general knowledge and be able to consider important matters from an informed viewpoint. Other people say that universities should simply train students to do the jobs required by society and not concern themselves with broader issues. Discuss. (Insearch prepare for  IE )

11. The wealth of a nation is said to depend on the health of its citizens. Yet, in the modern knowledge-based economies of the world, education is more and more being seed as the main force in the development of all countries. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Academic writing practice)

12. Education is the single most important factor in the development of a developing country. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE )

13. Too much emphasis is placed on testing these days. The need to prepare for tests and examinations is a restriction on teachers and also exerts unnecessary pressure on young learners. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Focus on  IE )

14. Most education systems rely on examinations to encourage children to study, but as a result, children suffer from too much stress and they never learn to be creative. Therefore, examinations should be abolished. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)

15. All educational facilities should be funded by the government. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE )

16. Who should be responsible for children's education: the school or parents? Give your opinion and reasons. (Model tests for the  IE )

17. Firm discipline is a necessary part of teaching children. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE )

18. Many parents use punishment to teach the different between right and wrong to kids. Many think punishment is necessary to help children learn the distinction between right and wrong. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

19. Too much education is dangerous. If people receive more education than they need to function in their job, it only breeds dissatisfaction. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module)

20. Parents and family background have more influence than teachers of a young person's learning and academic achievement. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation)

21. To be successful in education, it is more important to be a good student than to have good teachers. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)

22. Most people think that teachers should teach students how to judge right and wrong and how to behave well. Some feel that people should just teach students academic subject. Discuss. (China writing)

23. Some people think that there are benefits in going to private secondary schools. Others feel that private secondary school can have negative effect on the society as a whole. What is your opinion? Justify and give examples according to your knowledge or experience. (September 6th, 2006) (China writing)

24. Education is a lifelong task. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (September 12th, 2002)

25. Government should spend more money on education than on recreation and sport. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (March 7th, 2003)

26. As reading is important for good education, we should encourage children to read whatever appeals to them. Discuss. (China writing)

27. University graduates receive higher salaries than those who have a lower education. Therefore, some people say such students should pay for all their tuition fees. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

28. Is education losing its value? (China writing)

29. Some people think educate children of different abilities together will benefit them. Others think intelligent children should be taught separately and give special courses. Discuss. (China writing)

30. Some people believe that students who want to go to university after graduation from high school should have about one year's time to get a job to obtain work experience or have a travel to enlarge their vision. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

31. People who have original ideas are of much greater value to society than those who are simply able to copy the ideas of others well. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Insight into  IE )

32. Should there be a minimum school leaving age, or should students and their parents be free to decide when they leave school?

33. Some say that it is good for children to stay away from their families and go to boarding school. Others say that children had better live with their families and attend a day school. Discuss.


WORK AND JOBS 

1. The idea of having a single career is becoming an old fashioned one. The new fashion will be to have several careers or ways of learning money and further education will be something that continues throughout life. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  1)

2. In many countries, children are engaged in some kind of paid work. Some people regard this as completely wrong, while others consider it as valuable work experience, important for learning and taking responsibilities. Discuss. (Cambridge  IE  3)

3. It has been claimed that workers over 50 are not responsive to rapidly changing ideas in the modern workplace and that for this reason younger workers are to be preferred. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Practice tests with answers)

4. In some countries the average worker is obliged to retire at the age of 50, while in others people can work until they are 65 or 70. Meanwhile, we see some politicians enjoying power well into their eighties. Clearly, there is little agreement on an appropriate retirement age. Until what age do you think people should be encouraged to remain in paid employment? (Model tests for the  IE )

5. People today move to new cities or new countries more than ever before and experience many challenges. What strategies are there to meet these challenges? ( IE  on Track)

6. Some people argue that the government should give every unemployed person a mobile phone and should make sure they have access to the Internet. They believe this is the best way of using public money to reduce the problem of unemployment. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Focus on  IE )

7. As there is increasing unemployment in the world, while at the same time those who have jobs are working harder and harder, it would be better to have a four-day working week for everyone, and so to create more jobs. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)

8. Some people prefer to stay in the same job for the same company, but others prefer to change jobs frequently. Discuss. (China writing)

9. Some employers reward members of staff for their exceptional contribution to the company by giving them extra money. This practice can act as an incentive for some but may also have a negative impact on others. To what extent is this style of management effective? Are there better ways of encouraging employees to work hard? ( IE  practice plus) 

MONEY AND FINANCE 

1. Many people judge success solely by money and material possessions. However, success can be achieved or measured in other ways. Discuss. ( IE  Foundation) 
2. "Money cannot buy happiness" it is often claimed. But with money you can buy most of the things that are necessary for happiness: good food, accommodation, entertainment, travel, quality health care… No wonder most people want to make as much money as possible. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

POLITICS 

1. A country's first duty to its citizens is to protect them. Therefore, it is logical that defence should take up a significant proportion of the national budget. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module)

2. Overpopulation of urban areas has led to numerous problems. Identify one or two serious ones and suggest ways that governments and individuals tackle these problems. ( IE  Foundation) 
3. Future plans which is to design prisons for learning and working, with bigger cells containing computers that will enable study and communication, have been criticized for trying to turn prisons into "holiday camps" and "wasting taxpayers' money". To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation) 
4. A government's role is only to provide defence capability and urban infrastructure (road, water supplies…). All other services (education, health, social security) should be provided by private groups or individuals in the community. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Insearch prepare for  IE ) 

THE ENVIRONMENT 

1. The world is consuming natural resources faster than they can be renewed. Therefore, it is important that products are made to last. Governments should discourage people from constantly buying more up to date or fashionable products. To what extent do you agree with this statement? (Model tests for the  IE )

2. One day the world's oil and gas reserves will run out. The search for alternative energy sources like wind power, solar power, burning waste and water power are causing as much environmental damage as the oil and nuclear power sources they are intended to replace. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Academic writing practice)

3. At present we rely on oil for most our energy needs. However, oil is a fossil fuel and causes air pollution, and it will eventually run out. Nuclear energy is the only practical and clean source of energy for the world. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)

4. Trees are essential for the existence of the human race as they provide the oxygen that we need to survive. Yet, daily all around the globe, large areas of woodland are being destroyed. Many people feel that they as individuals can do nothing and that only governments and large companies can halt the destruction. To what extent do you agree with this? (Academic writing practice)

5. Climate change is now an accepted threat to our planet, but there is not enough political action to control excessive consumerism and pollution. In what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  on Track)

6. The environment is one of the most important issues in the world today, but governments are not doing enough about it. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)

7. Damage to the environment is an inevitable consequence of worldwide improvements in the standard of living. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE )

8. Most pollution, especially air and water pollution, is caused by industry. If we want to protect the environment, we should make factories and other forms of industry pay of all the pollution that they cause. That is the only way to make sure that the owners will make a serious effort to reduce the pollution that they cause. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing)


9. Nowadays, environmental problems are too big to be managed by individual person or individual country. In other words, it is an international problem. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (October 4th, 2003)

10. Waste disposal presents increasing problems, especially in urban areas. Cause, effect, solution (China writing)

11. The best way to solve the world's environmental problems is to increase the cost of fuel. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

HEALTH CARE 

1. "Prevention is better than cure". Out of a country's health budget, a large proportion should be diverted from treatment to spending on health education and preventative measures. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? (Cambridge  IE  2)

2. A number of different medical traditions are now widely known and used: Western medicine (using drugs and surgery), herbal medicine (using needles at certain points of the body), homoeopathy (using minute doses of poisons), and so on. How important is the patient's mental attitude towards his/her treatment in determining the effectiveness of the treatment? (Model tests for the  IE ) (China writing)

3. Most developed countries spend a large proportion of their heath budgets on expensive medical technology and procedures. This money should be spent instead on health education to keep people well. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  on Track)

4. The quality of health care a person receives should not depend on the size of their bank balance. The government is responsible for providing a high level of heath care for all its citizens. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module)


5. Some people claim that using tobacco has brought several social problems and smocking should be banned. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

6. Should citizen take out private health insurance?

7. Currently there is a trend towards the use of alternative forms of medicine. However, at best these methods are ineffective, and at worst they may be dangerous. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation)

8. What are the possible effects of living long on an individual and on the whole society? (July 5th, 2006) 

TRAVELLING AND TOURISM 

1. Tourism is a modern form of colonialism. It distorts local economies, causes environment damage and ruins the places it exploits. To what extent do you agree? ( IE  Practice tests with answers)

2. Most of the world's poor live in countries where tourism is a growing industry. The issue is that tourism does not benefit the poorest. How can the income generated by tourism benefit the poor? And how can we ensure that tourism does not destroy traditional cultures and ways of life? Discuss. (Focus on  IE )

3. According to those in the travel business, the nature of the average holiday is changing. Rather than seeking a relaxing break in a faraway place, people now want excitement on their holidays and are keen to participate in unusual and challenging activities. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Insight into  IE ) 


LANGUAGE AND CULTURE 

1. The increasing role of English in the world today means that the learning of other languages is being neglected. This will have serious results for the continued use of these languages, and of their cultures. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

2. Young people are said to have lost many of the traditional values of the older generation. This does not matter, because the old values have no relevance in the modern world. We need to develop a whole new set of values. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

3. Multicultural society brings more benefits to the country than drawbacks. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (September 3rd, 2006) 

4. Over the past fifty years, young people began to gain status and power lost by old people. What is the cause and is it a good development or bad? (China writing) 

5. Some people think visitors to other countries should imitate local custom and behaviours. Others think the host country should welcome cultural diversity. Discuss. (China writing) 

6. The culture of different countries are becoming similar so there is no point for people to go travelling abroad for they could have same experience at home. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

7. Will the popularity of English and tourism harm the minorities and minor language? Discuss (China writing) 

8. Some people think that it is more important to have one language to be adapted as the official international language. Others say that this will lead to the loss of culture and identity of their country. Discuss. 


CRIME AND LAWS 

1. Without capital punishment (the death penalty) our lives are less secure and crimes of violent increase. Capital punishment is essential to control violence in society. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  2) 

2. Tobacco and alcohol are drugs that cause addition and health problems. Should they be made illegal? Or should all drugs be legalized? (Essay Writing) 
3. Should criminals be sent to prison or should they do something else as a punishment? (China writing) 

4. Recent statistics show that the crimes by the young people in the major city of the world are increasing. Cause, effects, solutions. (China writing) 

5. Young women crime has become more and more prevalent in recent years. Causes, effects and solutions. (China writing) 

6. Crime is nearly always related to the environment in which it occurs. For this reason, international laws and international law courts are unrealistic and will not succeed in reducing crime levels in different countries. Discuss. (Insight into  IE ) 

7. Under British and Australian laws a jury in a criminal case has no access to information about the defendant's past criminal record. This protects the person who is being accused of the crime. Some lawyers have suggested that this practice should be changed and that a jury should be given all the past facts before they reach their decision about the case. In what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  practice plus) 

8. The use of CCTV (close circuit television) cameras in streets, stations, shops and other public places has increased rapidly in recent years. Although we are told that these cameras help in the fight against crime, some people are opposed to their use. They believe that everyone has a right to privacy. (Serve more as an invasion of our privacy than as a protection of our safety). To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Focus on  IE ) (Model tests for the  IE ) 


SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

1. When a country develops its technology, the traditional skills and ways of life die out. It is pointless to try and keep them alive. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  3) 

2. Technology can bring many benefits, but it can also cause social and environmental problems. In relation to new technology, the primary duty of governments should be to focus on potential problems, rather than benefits. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? (Model tests for the  IE ) 

3. "Telecommuting" refers to workers doing their jobs from home for part of each week and communicating with their office using computer technology. Telecommuting is growing in many countries and is expected to be common for most office workers in the coming decades. How do you think society will be affected by the growth of telecommuting? ( IE  to success) 

4. In the future, we will have more and more leisure time as machines replace many of the tasks we do at home and work. Discuss the benefits this will bring and also the problem it will cause. (Academic writing practice) 

5. The Internet is becoming more central to our lives, as it provides more information, acts as interactive entertainment, and as a means of voting… These functions have obvious benefits, but there are dangers involved in the control the Internet is exerting over our lives. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Academic writing practice) 

6. High technology is now being harnessed to help the elderly by providing monitoring, tracking and, perhaps, one day robots as companions. Whilst there are obvious benefits for the elderly in these developments, some people are uneasy about the social consequences. In what extent to you agree or disagree? (Academic writing practice) 

7. We live today in an electronic information age. It is easier to be connected by technology yet many people seem no closer to feeling happy in their lives. In what extent do you agree or disagree. ( IE  on Track) 

8. Advances in science and technology and other areas of society in the last 100 years have transformed the way we live as well as postponing the day we die. There is no better time to be alive than now. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion? (Focus on  IE ) 

9. According to a recent study, the more time people use the Internet, the less time they spend with real human beings. Should we worry about the effect this is having on social interaction or should we see the Internet as a way of opening up new communication possibilities worldwide? Discuss. (Focus on  IE ) 

10. The internet will bring about a new freedom of information and so narrow the technology gap between developed and developing countries. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

11. In the last 20 years there have been significant developments in the field of IT, for example the www and communication by e-mail. However, future developments in IT are likely to have more negative effects than positive. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation) 

12. We live in a technological age. However, technology cannot solve all the world's problems. Therefore some people argue that we need to place less emphasis on technological solutions and more on other values. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

13. The Internet has provided great benefits, but at the same time it has also created new problems and inequalities. Is it possible to control some of these problems? (Essay Writing) 

14. Modern technology has increased our material wealth, but not our happiness. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

15. Soon, people who cannot work with computers will be disadvantaged. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (June 1st, 2002) 

16. Technology has fascinated our life so much and given us a lot of freedom. Some people however believe that it has caused more problems for us. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (March 9th, 2003) 

17. Computers do not help children to learn more effectively. On the contrary, their usage has a negative effect on both the physical and mental development of young people. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

18. The computers are widely used in education, and some people think teacher are not play important role in the classroom. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

19. Are computers an essential feature of modern education? What subjects can be better taught using computers? Are there aspects of a good education that cannot be taught using computers? (China writing) 

20. Modern technology has influenced people's entertainment and made people less creative. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)

21. Some people think scientists contribute the society more. Others believe other subjects contribute more such as language and business. Discuss. (China writing) 

22. Modern technologies such as fertilizers and machinery have feed our world. Some people claim such technology can provide us cheap food and also have some negative effects. Discuss. (China writing) 

23. Intelligent machines such as robots are widely applied to take the place of human beings. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages. (China writing) 

24. The development of science and technology benefit our life. However, scientists cannot find effective solutions to the problems the created. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

25. Earlier technological development brought to more benefits and changed the life of ordinary people than the recent technological developments ever will. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 


FOOD AND DIET 

1. A balanced diet or eating balanced meals is the key to a healthy life. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

CHILDREN AND THE FAMILY 

1. Should old man live with young people together or should they live in the clubs for the elder? Discuss. (China writing) 

2. Modern lifestyles mean that many parents have little time for their children. Many children do not get as much attention from their parents as children did in the past. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

3. Many modern children spend a great deal of time sitting in front of a television or computer screen. This is extremely harmful to their development. Therefore, parents should strictly limit the time that children spend in this way. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

4. It is often argued that children must be protected from unsuitable material on TV and the Internet by government censorship. Others say that it is the parents' responsibility to control what their children do and watch. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

5. Should a child is brought up in a village or a city? 

TRANSPORTATION 

1. The burning oil for transport, especially in private cars, is wasteful and environmentally irresponsible. Taxation on petrol and diesel fuel should be increased to very high levels to discourage the use of private cars. To what extent would you support or reject this idea? ( IE  Practice tests with answers) 

2. Young drivers are careless and overconfident, and too many are killed in accidents. To eliminate this problem, we could teach children the skills of safe driving while they are at school. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? ( IE  Practice tests with answers) 
3. The rising level of congestion and air pollution found in most of the world's cities can be attributed directly to the rapidly increasing number of private cars in use. In order to reverse this decline in the quality of life in cities, attempts must be made to encourage people to use their cars less and public transport more. Discuss possible ways to encourage the use of public transport. ( IE  to success) 

4. Governments should not be expected to take sole responsibility for reducing the number of road accidents, individuals should share this responsibility. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE ) 

5. If countries are serious about solving traffic problems, they should tax private cars very heavily and use the money to provide free or very cheap rail travel. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

6. There are an excessive number of cars on our roads today and this leads to many problems. Individuals and governments should ensure that public transport plays a more important role in modern life in order to tackle these problems. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation) 

7. In every city the car is killing the road. Cars cause death and injury and air pollution, and they make life difficult and dangerous for others. It is time to reduce the number of cars in our cities and to encourage other means of transport. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

8. The only way to improve the safety on the roads is to give much stricter punishments for driving offences. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

9. The private motor vehicle has greatly improved individual freedom of movement. Moreover, the automobile has become a status symbol. Yet the use of private motor vehicles has contributed to some of today's most serious problems. How can the use of private motor vehicles be reduced? (China writing) 

10. There are more and more vehicles in the city, which is very dangerous for cyclists and pedestrians. Besides, many gardens have to make way to highways or expressways. How can we make everyone satisfied? (China writing) 

11. The private motor vehicle has greatly improved individuals freedom of movement. Moreover, the automobile has become a status of symbol. Yet the use of private motor vehicles has contributed to some of today's most serious problems. How can the use of private motor vehicles be reduced? (Insearch prepare for  IE ) 


THE ARTS, MUSIC AND ENTERTAINMENT [/size=5] 

1. There are many different types of music in the world today. Why do we need music? Is the traditional music of a country more important than the international music that is heard everywhere nowadays? Discuss. (Cambridge  IE  1) 

2. Creative artists should always be given the freedom to express their own ideas (in words, pictures, music or film) in whichever way they wish. There should be no government restrictions on what they do. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  4) 

3. The government spends about $220 million a year supporting museums and galleries in the UK and a similar amount subsidizing the visual and performing arts. This is a huge sum to spend on minority interests, and the money would be better spent on more important things. It should be up to the people who enjoy cultural attractions to pay for them. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Focus on  IE ) 

4. Some people say the government should not put money in the Arts, such as music, opera and paintings, but instead should spend money on construction of public facilities. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

5. The government should control the amount of violence in films and on television in order to decrease the violent crimes in society. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

6. Some people think that strong tradition can civilize a country and the government should subsidize musicians, artists, actors and drama companies. In what extent do you agree or disagree? What should the government do? (China writing) 

7. People doing different kinds of work enjoy different amount of holiday time. Should people have the same amount of leisure time? Discuss. (China writing)

8. To be labelled a "Work of Art", a painting, sculpture or other art form should display certain qualities that are unique. However, over the past century there has been a decline in the quality of prize-winning artwork and it is now possible for quite ordinary pieces of art to be labelled "masterpieces" whilst true works of art pass unnoticed. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  practice plus) 

9. Pop music vs. classic? 

10. Do young people today make good use of their leisure time? Or do they spend too much time watching television and playing video games, instead of taking part in more productive activities? Discuss. (Focus on  IE ) 


TOWN AND COUNTRY 

1. In the course of urban development, we often find ourselves confronted with the old building problem. Some people think we should pull down the old houses and buildings in the way. However, others argue that it is a very rash decision to tear them down without full consideration, and we have to preserve our old, historic buildings. Discuss. (China writing) 

2. The gap of living in cities and the country side is larger and larger. Causes, effects and solutions. (China writing) 


GLOBALIZATION 

1. Should wealthy nations be required to share their wealth among poorer nations by providing such things as food and education? Or is it the responsibilities of the governments of poorer nations to look after their citizens themselves? (Cambridge  IE  1) 

2. Improvement in health, education and trade are essential for the development of poorer nations. However, the government of richer nations should take more responsibility for helping the poorer nations in such areas. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  3) 

3. The international community should reduce or eliminate the debts of the world's poorest countries. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Practice tests with answers) 

4. Every country needs to remember its past. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? ( IE  Practice tests with answers) 

5. More and more qualified people are moving from poor to rich countries to fill vacancies in specialist areas like engineering, computing and medicine. Some people believe that by encouraging the movement of such people, rich countries are stealing from poor countries. Others feel that this is only part of the natural movement of workers around the world. Give your opinion. (Academic writing practice) 

6. As most foreign aid often benefits the donor more than the receiver, developing countries should refuse to repay their debts. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

7. Many people think that countries should have a moral obligation to help each other, while other argue that the aid money is misspend by the government that receive it, so the international aid should not give to the poor countries in the world. Discuss. (China writing) 

8. Most countries spend a large amount of money in weapons to defend themselves though they are not at war. They should spend money to help the citizens in poor and disadvantaged countries. Discuss. (China writing) 


MEN AND WOMEN 

1. Fatherhood ought to be emphasized as much as motherhood. The idea that women are solely responsible for deciding whether or not to have babies leads on to the idea that they are also responsible for bringing the children up. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  2) 

2. The position of women in society has changed markedly in the last twenty years. Many of the problems young people now experience, such as juvenile delinquency, arise from the fact that many married women now work and not at home to care for their children. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  2) 

3. Many people believe that women make better parents than men and this is why they have the greater role in raising children in most societies. Others claim that men are just as good as women at parenting. Write an essay expressing your point of view. ( IE  to success) 

4. Woman should give up their jobs and go back to their traditional role of home-maker in order to reduce world unemployment. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

5. One solution to decline in moral values in today's world would be for men and women to return to their traditional roles. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

6. Women will pay an increasingly important role in the workplace of the future. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

7. Most high level jobs are done by men. Should the government encourage a certain % of these jobs to be reserved for women? (China writing) (Also in equal % in universities' major) 

8. More and more women go out to work. The government should subsidize them and provide free staff and facilities to care for their children. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

9. Some people argue that there are no fundamental differences between the way men and women approach academic study. Others insist that there are big differences such as organization, attitude and ambition, and that these differences inevitably have an impact on student life. Discuss. (Insight into  IE ) 


SPORTS 

1. Popular events like the football World Cup and other international sporting occasions are essential in easing international tensions and releasing patriotic emotion in a safe way. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Cambridge  IE  3) 

2. Sports which depend on violence for their entertainment, such as boxing and wrestling, have no place in a civilized society and should be banned. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Practice tests with answers) 

3. Professional sports involve large sums of money and receives enormous media coverage. Meanwhile serious culture, including music, art and theatre, is badly neglected. This is making our society shallower. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

4. International sports competitions are the best way to prevent conflict. National feelings can be expressed in friendly competition, rather than fighting and sports heroes are better role models than fighters. The large sums of money spent on international sports competition such as the Olympic Games are therefore justified. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Essay Writing) 

5. In some countries, sports and entertainment people earn higher salaries than professionals like doctors, nurses and teachers. Why do you think this happens in some societies and do you consider it is good or bad? (China writing) 

6. Some people think that the Olympic Games will not play a role in 21st century. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

7. Sports encourage competition rather than cooperation. Therefore, sports should not be encouraged at school. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

8. Is it fair that sports professionals earn a great deal more money than people in other important profession? Discuss. (China writing) 

9. In the past, sporting champions used to be motivated primarily by the desire to win a match or to break world records. These days, they are more likely to be motivated by prize money and the opportunity to be famous. What message does this send to young people and how does this attitude to sport affect the sports themselves? ( IE  practice plus) ' 


ANIMALS 

1. Many people keep dogs and cats as companions. Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of pet ownership for the animals involved and for the community as a whole. ( IE  on Track) 

2. Animals should not be used for the benefit of human beings, unless there is evidence that the animals do not suffer in any way. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Passport to  IE ) 

3. As public safety is one of the highest importance, it is often necessary to test new products on animals. It is better for a few animals to suffer than for human life to be placed at risk by untested products. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (Reading and Writing module) 

4. Zoos are sometimes sees as necessary but poor alternative to a natural environment. It is necessary to keep animals in zoos. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

5. Wild animals have no place in the 21st century. Some people think that preventing these wild animals from dying out is a waste of resource. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

6. Some people think killing animals for food is cruel and unnecessary. Others think that it is essential for daily diet. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 

7. Some people regard animals as the source of food or clothes. Other thinks that they should be treated like pets. Discuss. (China writing) 


NATURAL DISASTER AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATION 

1. Too much attention is given to headline-grabbing disasters like earthquakes and floods. Government should concentrate their resources on educating people about the risk they face nearer to home, which can cost far more lives. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this opinion. (Focus on  IE ) 


ADVERTISING 

1. Some of the methods used in advertising are unethical and unacceptable in today's society. To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  Foundation) 

2. We are surrounding by advertising. Some people think that this is good, because it gives us a choice as consumers. But others argue that it makes people selfish and greedy for more and more goods. Do you think that there should be less advertising? (Essay Writing) 

3. Advertisements are getting their way into people's lives. Discuss the effects of advertisements of people. Should all ads be banned? (China writing)

 

UN-CATALOGED 

1. Some people say that tell the truth is not always essential. It's necessary to tell lies sometimes. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing)  

2. Happiness is considered important to people. Why are the definitions of happiness different? What are the factors in achieving happiness? (China writing) 

3. It is said that people's life now is becoming more and more stressful. Causes, effects and solutions. (China writing) 

4. In achieving personal happiness, our relationships with other people (family, friends, and colleagues) are more important than anything else. Issues such as work and wealth take second place. To what extent do you agree or disagree? (Insight into  IE ) 

5. In some countries, marriages are arranged by the parents but in other cases. Discuss. (Insight into  IE ) 

6. "Failure is proof that the desire wasn't strong enough." To what extent do you agree or disagree? ( IE  practice plus) 

7. Research indicates that the characteristics we were born with have much more influence on our personality and development than experiences we had in our life. In what extent do you agree or disagree? (China writing) 


GOVERNMENT 

Should wealthy nations be required to share their wealth among poorer nations by providing such things as food and education? Or is it the responsibility of the governments of poorer nations to look after their citizens themselves? 

What should a government do for a country to become successful? 

Should money be spent on space exploration? 

Should rich countries forgive all debts for poor countries? 

Does foreign aid help donor countries more than the recipients? 

Should rich countries pay more for environmental damage? 

Most high level jobs are done by men. Should the government encourage a certain percentage of these jobs to be reserved for women? 

Should developing countries concentrate on improving industrial skills or should they promote education first? 

Safety standards are important when building people's homes. Who should be responsible for enforcing strict building codes - the government or the people who build the homes? 

Discuss the advantage and disadvantage of giving international aid to poor countries. 

Should criminals be punished with lengthy jail terms or re-educated and rehabilitated using community service programs for instance, before being reintroduced to society? 

In most countries disabled people are not catered for adequately, e.g. buildings are often inappropriately designed. Governments rely too heavily on charities and voluntary organizations to provide assistance and funding. What further measures could be taken to assist disabled people? 

In your opinion should government intervene in the rights of the individual with regard to family planning? 

The best way to reduce the number of traffic accidents is to make all young drivers complete a safe driving education course before being licensed to drive. 


MODERN SOCIETY 

Nowadays doctors can become very rich. Maybe they should not focus on profitable activities such as plastic surgery or looking after rich patients and concentrate more on patient's health, no matter how rich they are? 

Does travel help to promote understanding and communication between countries? 

In your opinion what factors contribute to a good movie? 

Are famous people treated unfairly by the media ? Should they be given more privacy, or is the price of their fame an invasion into their private lives? 
Is animal testing necessary? 

Some businesses now say that no one can smoke cigarettes in any of their offices. Some governments have banned smoking in all public places. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons. 

To what extent is the use of animals in scientific research acceptable? 

Human beings do not need to eat meat in order to maintain good health because they can get all their food needs from meatless products and meatless substances. A vegetarian diet is as healthy as a diet containing meat. Argue for or against the opinion above. 

Forests are the lungs of the earth. Destruction of the world's forests amounts to death of the world we currently know. To what extent do you agree or disagree? 

Are our zoos cruel to wild animals? Discuss. 

Zoos are sometimes seen as necessary but not poor alternatives to a natural environment. Discuss some of the arguments for and/or against keeping animals in zoos. 

To what extent will migration from the developing world to the developed world become a social and political issue in the 21st century? 

In Britain, when someone gets old, they often go to live in a home with other old people where there are nurses to look after them. Sometimes the government has to pay for this care. Who should be responsible for our old people? Give reasons. 

The first car appeared on British roads in 1888. By the year 2000 there may be as many as 29 million vehicles on British roads. Alternative forms of transport should be encouraged and international laws introduced to control car ownership and use. What do you think? 

The best way to reduce the number of traffic accidents is to make all young drivers complete a safe driving education course before being licensed to drive. 

News editors decide what to broadcast on TV and what to print in newspapers. What factors do you think influence their decisions? Have we become used to bad news? Would it be better if more good news was reported? 
TV: could you be without it? Discuss. 

To what extent will migration from the developing world to the developed world become a social and political issue in the 21st century? 

The mass media, including TV, radio and newspapers, have great influence in shaping people's ideas. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? Give reasons for your answer. 

Tourism is becoming increasingly important as a source of revenue to many countries but its disadvantages should not be overlooked. What are some of the problems of tourism? 

The mass media, including TV, radio and newspapers, have great influence in shaping people's ideas. To what extent do you agree or disagree this statement? Give reasons for your answer 


TECHNOLOGY 

Does modern technology make life more convenient, or was life better when technology was simpler? 

Will modern technology, such as the internet ever replace the book or the written word as the main source of information? 

We are becoming increasingly dependent on computers. They are used in businesses, hospitals, crime detection and even to fly planes. What things will they be used for in future?.Is this dependence on computers a good thing or should we be more suspicious of their benefits? Use specific details and examples in your answer. 

In what ways has information technology changed work and working practices in the past 10 years? 

Technology is making communication easier in today's world, but at the expense of personal contact as many people choose to work at home in front of a computer screen. What dangers are there for a society which depends on computer screens rather than face-to-face contact for its main means of communication? 

Will the Internet bring people of the world closer together? 

The first car appeared on British roads in 1888. By the year 2000 there may be as many as 29 million vehicles on British roads. Alternative forms of transport should be encouraged and international laws introduced to control car ownership and use. What do you think? 

The mass media, including TV, radio and newspapers, have great influence in shaping people's ideas. To what extent do you agree or disagree this statement? Give reasons for your answer. 

EMPLOYMENT 

Should retirement be compulsory at 65 years of age? 
Telecommuting' refers to workers doing their jobs from home for part of each week and communicating with their office using computer technology. 

Telecommuting is growing in many countries and is expected to be common for most office workers in the coming decades. How do you think society will be affected by the growth of telecommuting? 

In some countries the average worker is obliged to retire at the age of 50, while in others people can work until they are 65 or 70. Until what age do you think people should be encouraged to remain in paid employment? Give reasons for your answer. 


ENVIRONMENT & ECOLOGY 

To what extent should economic planning be influenced by the need of environmental conservation? 

Damage of the environment is an inevitable consequence of worldwide improvements in the standard of living. Discuss. 

The rising levels of congestion and air pollution found in most of the world cities can be attributed directly to the rapidly increasing number of private cars in use. In order to reverse this decline in the quality of life in cities, attempts must be made to encourage people to use their cars less and public transport more. Discuss possible ways to encourage the use of public transport. 

The threat of nuclear weapons maintains world peace. Nuclear power provides cheap and clean energy. The benefits of nuclear technology far outweigh the disadvantages. Do you agree or disagree? Give reasons for your answer. 


EDUCATION 

Education is the single most important factor in the development of a country. Do you agree? 

What are factors which are related to academic success in high-school students? 

Do the benefits of study abroad justify the difficulties? What advice would you offer to a prospective student? 

The idea of going overseas for university study is an exciting prospect for many people. But while it may offer some advantages, it is probably better to stay home because of the difficulties a student inevitably encounters living and studying in a different culture. To what extent do you agree or disagree this statement? Give reasons for your answer. 

Education is recognized as vital to the future of any society in today's world. Governments throughout the world should make education compulsory for all children between the ages of 5 and 15. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? 

Foreign language instruction should begin in kindergarten. Discuss. 
Should sports classes be sacrificed in High School so students can concentrate on academic subjects? 

To what extent should universities function as training grounds for employment? 

To what extent should university courses be geared to the economic needs of society? 

Should children be taught sex education in schools? 

Computers can translate all kinds of languages well. Do our children need to learn more languages in the future

Are zoos necessary for education? 


PARENTS & CHILDREN 

Children should never be educated at home by their parents. Do you agree or disagree

Children learn best by observing behaviour of adults and copying it. To what extent do you agree or disagree with this statement? 


GENDER ISSUES - ESSAY TOPICS 

To what extent has the traditional male role changed in the last 20 years? 
Many people believe that women make better parents than men and that this is why they have the greater role in raising children in most societies. Others claim that men are just as good as women at parenting. Write an essay expressing your point of view. Give reasons for your answer.